---
title: n2p2 Usage Guide
authors: Yongbin Zhuang
comments: true
---

# n2p2 Usage Guide

## Short Introduction

This repository provides ready-to-use software for high-dimensional neural network potentials in computational physics and chemistry.

The following link is for your information:

- [Repository](#https://github.com/CompPhysVienna/n2p2)
- Original Methodology: [J. Behler and M. Parrinello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 146401 (2007)](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.98.146401)
- Paper for This code: [Singraber, A.; Morawietz, T.; Behler, J.; Dellago, C. , J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2019 15 (5), 3075-3092](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01092)
- For Install this code: see [Installation Guide](../software_installation/../software_usage/n2p2.md#n2p2-usage-guide)

!!! warning None
    This page is just the experience and understanding of author. If you find any mistake or vague part, please report the issue

## Basic Principle

The basic of n2p2 softeware is based on the method of neural network fitting. For detail of neural network(NN), please refer to [here].

The extra works done by Behler and Parrinello, is build a link between Potential Energy Surface and NN. 

At first, they decomposes the total energy into atomic energy($E^{atom}$). $E^{atom}$ is not the energy of neutral atom in the vacuum as we have seen in quantum chemistry book. The $E^{atom}$ is just the decomposition of total energy into the contribution of every atoms, as expressed by the following equation:
$$
E_{tot}=\sum_i {E_i^{atom}}
$$
Where i runs over the index of atom in a system.



## Usage in Cluster

n2p2 has installed in Cluster51. Use command `module load n2p2/2.0.0` to load the code n2p2. After that, you can use all the executable binary of n2p2. LSF script is in the directory `/share/base/script/n2p2.lsf`. Explanation of lsf script is put in here

## Training Procedure

### Overview

The Core library in n2p2 is `nnp-train`. You can see this command after load module `n2p2/2.0.0`. Enter the Directory of **prepared files** and type `nnp-train` is all enough. For mpi running of command, just type `mpirun nnp-train`. The input files for `nnp-train` include:

- `input.nn`: input setup for training
- `input.data`: input training set for training procedure.
- `scaling.data`: scaling data from data set (you will obtain this from `nnp-scaling`)

Example input file is in the github repository `<n2p2 root>/examples/nnp-train`

### File: input.data

See input.data format [here](https://compphysvienna.github.io/n2p2/Topics/cfg_file.html)

Python script for convertion from cp2k xyz to input.data

```python
 from ase.io import read, write
 import os, sys
 
 # data_path: directory contains forces.xyz and coords.xyz
 data_path = "./test_data"
 data_path = os.path.abspath(data_path)
 
 #input cell parameter here, a 3x3 list
 cell = [[10., 0., 0. ], [0., 10., 0.], [0., 0., 10.]]
 
 #read coords and forces
 pos_path= os.path.join(data_path, "coords.xyz")
 frc_path= os.path.join(data_path, "forces.xyz")
 pos = read(pos_path, index = ":")
 frc = read(frc_path, index = ":")
 
 out_path = os.path.join(data_path, "input.data")
 fw = open(out_path, "w")
 for frame_idx in range(len(pos)):
     fw.write("begin\n")
     for i in range(3):
         fw.write("lattice{:10.4f}{:10.4f}{:10.4f}\n".format(cell[i][0], cell[i][1], cell[i][2]))
     for atom in zip(pos[i], frc[i]):
         fw.write("atom{:12.5f}{:12.5f}{:12.5f}".format(atom[0].position[0], atom[0].position[1], atom[0].position[2]))
         fw.write("{:3}".format(atom[0].symbol))
         fw.write("{:10.4f}{:10.4f}".format(0.0, 0.0))
         fw.write("{:12.5f}{:12.5f}{:12.5f}\n".format(atom[1].position[0], atom[1].position[1], atom[1].position[2]))
     fw.write("energy{:20.4f}\n".format(pos[i].info['E']))
     fw.write("charge{:20.4f}\n".format(0.0))
     fw.write("end\n")
```



### nnp-scaling

`nnp-scaling` should be executed before `nnp-train` in order to obtain file `scaling-data`. There are only two files you need:

- `input.nn`
- `input.data`

Example input file is in the github repository `<n2p2 root>/examples/nnp-scaling`. A point is worth to notice. The `random_seed` keyword in file `input.nn` is followed by a number. This number serves as  a initialization of psudo-random code. However as you can imply from the name, this random number is fake. It depends strongly on your initialization number (more exactly, you will get a same serial number if you start by a same random seed number). Therefore, if you would like a random starting for parameter in NN, set a different number for random seed.

